2.10 Functions from Lists

2.10 Функции из списков


In some earlier dialects of Lisp, functions were represented as
lists. This gave Lisp programs the remarkable ability to write and
execute their own Lisp programs. In Common Lisp, functions are no
longer made of lists—good implementations compile them into native
machine code. But you can still write programs that write programs,
because lists are the input to the compiler.


В некоторых ранних диалектах лиспов функции были представлены как
списки. Это давало лиспу выдающуюся способность писать и выполнять
свои собственные программы на лисп. В Common Lisp функции более не
списки, хорошие реализации сразу компилируют их в машинный код. Но вы
все еще можете писать программы, которые пишут программы, потому что
списки можно отдать компилятору.


It cannot be overemphasized how important it is that Lisp programs can
write Lisp programs, especially since this fact is so often
overlooked. Even experienced Lisp users rarely realize the advantages
they derive from this feature of the language. This is why Lisp macros
are so powerful, for example. Most of the techniques described in this
book depend on the ability to write programs which manipulate Lisp
expressions.


Нелья переоценить насколько важен факт того, что программы на лиспе
могут писать программы на лиспе, особенно учитывая то как часто эту
возможность недооценивают. Даже опытные программисты редко осознают
какой выигрыш они получают от этой возможности языка. Это причина
того, почему макросы лиспа настолько могущественны. Большинство техник
в этой книге зависят от возможности писать программы, манипулирующие
лисп выражениями.
